---
id: capacitor-1.0.0
title: '@nxtend/capacitor 1.0.0'
author: Devin Shoemaker
author_title: Maintainer of nxtend
author_url: https://twitter.com/paranoidcoder
author_image_url: https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/1919548?s=460&u=e8799ad545249d59bf57b7ee35a8841825004ca0&v=4
tags: [ionic-react, capacitor, release]
---

A few months ago, I started working on an Nx plugin to enable Ionic React support in an Nx workspace. From the beginning, I planned to add support for Capacitor as well to fully enable the cross-platform development that the Ionic framework promises. Today, I am excited to announce the release of `@nxtend/capacitor`, a third-party Capacitor plugin for Nx.

<!--truncate-->

At a high level, Capacitor allows users to compile a web application to Android and iOS.

"Capacitor provides a consistent, web-focused set of APIs that enable an app to stay as close to web standards as possible, while accessing rich native device features on platforms that support them. Adding native functionality is easy with a simple Plugin API for Swift on iOS, Java on Android, and JavaScript for the web.

Capacitor is a spiritual successor to Apache Cordova and Adobe PhoneGap, with inspiration from other popular cross-platform tools like React Native and Turbolinks, but focused entirely on enabling modern web apps to run on all major platforms with ease. Capacitor is backward-compatible with many existing Cordova plugins."

To learn more about Capacitor, visit https://capacitorjs.com/docs

While Capacitor is developed by the Ionic team, the project is actually framework agnostic and should work with any app regardless of the framework used.

The `@nxtend/ionic-react` application schematic has also been updated to generate a Capacitor project by default, though you can easily add Capacitor to an existing application by following the [Getting Started](../docs/capacitor/getting-started.md) documentation.
